


main characters:

link - hero, protagonist
queen zelda - villian, antagonist
king ??? - villian, antagonist





#Backstory
after link saved zelda, they rarely saw or spoke to each other.
zelda wasn't allowed to marry outside royalty, so she married a prince.
link wasnt invited to the marriage, so he left the island and sailed away.
link traveled the world, fighting monsters and beasts, lost in an endless battle.
restlessly roaming from place to place, never stopping long to make friends.
then one day he saw a poster for zelda's tournament.
he decides to enter, if only to see queen zelda again.



#1Entry
story starts with link completing his entry trial to the colliseum.
this teaches the player the basics of the game, like movement, attacking, item usage.
player fights thru a few outdoor rooms with spectators, leading up to a simple boss.
upon beating the boss, queen zelda gives link the "warrior's pass", allowing entry to colliseum.
she tells him that the winner of the queen's tournament is granted a wish.
she tells link that she hopes he wins.
then the king appears and tells link that he hopes he wins too.
(the king is also a villian)
* colliseum and overworld opened to hero.


#2Discovery
This leaves the player at the overworld screen, at the colliseum.
At this point, the player doesn't know they need to defeat 4 bosses.
If they goto the colliseum and try to enter the queen's tournament, an NPC will reject them.
the NPC will explain link must prove his worth to enter the tournament.
this is done by obtaining the 4 crystals from nearby dungeons.
there are many different NPCs at the colliseum too.
there are NPCs for:
	betting on gladiator battles
	entering a single battle
	entering a tournament
	entering the queens tournament
there are many other places open on the map initially.
but some of them are closed, the inside of the castle city, for example.
the city gate will be closed until link wins the queen's tournament.
at that point, the royal city is open.	
	
	
#3Battle
At this point, link has all 4 crystals and gains entry to the Queen's tournament.
this is a series of boss battles, with no vendor between rooms.
link only has what he brings in, and what he can loot from mobs.
After the boss battles, link 'wins' the tournament and meets with the queen and king.
* the city gate opens. city levels become available.
* royal vendors become available.


#4TheKing
Prior to meeting, link can access the royal vendors, where special loot exists.
link meets with the queen and king in the castle, where the king challenges link to a duel.
the king says that zelda has told him everything, and that he cannot allow link to live.
k: 'your existance.. this bond you share with zelda.. it undermines my plans, link.'
k: 'i hope you understand why i must destroy you, and why she must watch.'
k: 'i am the king. my will is law.'
link battles the king in a very difficult boss fight.



#5TheQueen
link triumphs over the king, defeating him, but refusing to kill him.
zelda tells the king that he was weak, and defeated by a peasant with some toys.
then zelda kills the king, using lightning magic.

link exclaims: 'zelda! why?'
z 'all my life, i've been hunted, kidnapped, protected, guarded, controlled'.
z 'i was treated as an object, as something to have, not as a person.'
z 'the one thing i wanted, i couldn't have. the one person i loved.'
z 'you, link. i loved you.'
z 'i was given a choice: to marry royalty, or they would kill you.'
z 'so i gave up my life with you, my love for you. to protect you.'
z 'everyday since my heart has grown colder.'
z 'and now i have what i love, but i feel nothing.'
z 'im not the princess you saved so long ago, link.'
z '...'
z 'i am the queen.'
z 'and you are my subject.. the true hero of hyrule.'
z 'i will offer you this choice only once, my hero.'
z 'swear loyalty and join me, or die.' 
zelda offers link a choice: join her or die.
this starts storyline split..



#6A_Refuse
link refuses to join zelda in her rule over the south islands.
goto #END

#6B_Join
link chooses to join zelda in her rule over the south islands.
zelda accepts your loyalty.
goto #Assignment


#Assignment
zelda rewards link (gold, weapons, items, houses, wives, servents)
(everytime link completes a mission, he gains more physical wealth, but loses his heart little by little)
zelda tasks link with ______.
link argues that ______.
zelda asks if link defies her command? yes or no.
yes, goto #END... else goto #Service
1. blob genocide
(killing all the blobs, who were loyal to the king.)
(link argues that the blobs were only loyal to themselves, and were treated as slaves.)
2. beat the harbor master
(beat the harbor master until he agrees to release the king's flagship from port.)
(link says he'll ask the harbor master why he wont release it.)
(zelda says 'no, you'll beat him. until he releases the ship, or dies.)
3. ???
 
#Service
link loads into _____ level, where he ______.
link wins, defeating whatever, then returns to the queen.
the queen congratulates him on his success.
goto #Assignment
1. blob genocide
(Link goes to the blob town, where he kills ALOT of blobs, including the blob boss again.)
(Except, there are multiple blob bosses in play at once, known as the blob elders.)
(They are simply defending their town and people.)
2. beat the harbor master
(link arrives at the dock, speaking with the harbor master.)
(the harbor master explains that there are people aboard the king's flagship.)
(he says these people were taken against their will, to work in the mines and fields.)
(he refuses to release the king's flagship to the queen, and link battles him.)
3. ???


#END Zelda's Death	
zelda and link fight. zelda summons creatures, uses magic + lightning.
the fight happens in the throne room.	
link defeats zelda in battle, mortally wounding her.
as link holds her in his arms, he tells her that he always loved her.
she says that somewhere in her cold heart, she has always loved him as well.
then she dies, and link becomes king by rule of death.
* new tournament 'king's tournament' opens at colliseum
* new location opens: the queen's gravestone
* 50% off all vendor prices in the kingdom
* all NPC dialog varies slightly, addressing hero as king




post game activities: 
colliseum betting, tournaments, blob questline, purchase houses/businesses/etc

"loot caves" - secret entrances hidden in levels and dungeons that are mini-dungeons 
sequential rooms, with special bosses in each room, beating the loot cave returns hero to overworld
these entrances actually look like caves, and can be hidden behind cracked walls

"the king's ghosts" - randomly a 'king's ghost' will spawn in a dungeon room
this is the king boss battle, but the king is at 6 health and half opacity, and flying.

	
	
	


Tournaments, & Dungeons

Tournament
at colliseum, link can fight mobs and/or gladiators to earn money.
player can also bet money on other gladiator battles, or on their own battles.
when two AI gladiators fight, the battle playsout in realtime, using AI.
gladiators have stats, loadouts, fighting history, etc..
gladiator AI also has fighting styles: aggressive, disciplined, defensive
gladiators also have backstories, and names.

NPCs
various npcs are scattered throughout shops and locations.
NPCs in the shops explain aspects of inventory and stuff.
other NPCs fill out the game world's backstory and discuss major characters.








Blob SideStoryline

So link becomes a blob, and theres a blob vendor level
to get to the blob vendor level, you need to travel thru a small pipe
as a blob, this is easy. as a human, this is not possible.
this pipe level appears after all 4 crystals have been obtained.
inspecting the pipe as link displays a dialog 'i can't fit into that small, slimy pipe'.
inspecting the pipe as blob displays a dialog 'here we go!', and loads blob town.
exiting blob town places hero at the pipe level on overworld map.

the blobs arent actually bad guys, they've just been lumped in with the bad guys
they are kidnapped and forced to fight in the colliseum or live as slaves
because the blobs can't communicate with the humans, everybody assumes they're just evil
thus the blob's storyline is simply to fight in the queen's tournament and win
upon winning, the blob will wish that his people be recognized and set free.
the blob's journey is then one of learning about the blob's history + forming emotional bonds with blob NPCs
the blob challenge is simple: slower movement, leading to much harder dungeons + bosses





