


Colorizer

loads in all the textures for the levels in the game
select a level to see an example of it in use in a window frame
also has a color picker that allows you to set the color pallete used for the level
this would map the tonal grayscale values used to a list
then map the user's input colors to a list
then display the user's input colors based on the grayscale colors, using comparison lists
should also allow the user to save all the files as a set, named a specific way, to a folder
this would allow user to have complete control over the grayscale to color transition for release.

crazy awesome idea for a color scheme picker:
a central slider selector, with additional unselectable sliders around it
as you move the central slider, the other sliders move with it in parallel
should have an offset value, which controls how far apart the sliders are from the central slider
this would either spread the color scheme across the spectrum, or limit it, dynamically
of course, the example room with the level's display colors should be updating each frame
should be able to save the level's color values, or the game's level's color values
this would allow for the keeping of the sprite sheets in grayscale
and allow for the color mapping to occur independently of sprite development.


Awesome Idea: a display color pallete, mapped from grayscale values.
this means that all levels would be saved in grayscale.
then when the level is loaded, the display values would be set based on level type
the level's grayscale display value would then be interpreted into color
simply based on a list of color values, which could easily be changed and shared.

-how would this work? we would need a texture instance for the current level.
upon level load, levelsheet would be copied (bit by bit, not by reference) into the texture instance.
then the colorizer algorithm would run with the grayscale as target and color list as input.
it would change each grayscale color into the color equivalent based on the color list.
the level would finish loading, then the display texture would be used for the roomObjects