




questions we need to answer:


who poisoned the king? why?










link - protagonist

the mostly silent protagonist, who fought hard to defeat ganon, and won,
saving hyrule - celebrated as the legend foretold in stories - only to lose
it all to the Kondo Clan. Forced to flee his homeland, angry and bitter about
losing everything, link traveled for years - fighting and running. at one
point in his life, he truly thought he was a hero, but now he thinks that was
all some kind of ruse or fluke - he's no hero. he's just a survivor.
link does what link does best: fight. and he fights until one day he looks
up and sees a poster for the king's tournament, and that brings him home.






queen zelda - antagonist, the real badguy / victim

this is someone who was kidnapped and basically experimented on with MAGIC.
she has deep psycological issues that manifest in the form of control issues.
she HAS TO BE IN CONTROL. and because of this incredible feeling of being powerless,
she begins to study magic. eventually she begins to study dark magic, and
due to her connection with Ganon, dark magic resonates within her. She is
drawn to the power of dark magic, and using it she gains absolute control 
over everyone and everything in her life. 

She bends the mind of King Masa to believe that everyone is against him, 
except her. He trusts only her. He is her protector and savior, her puppet 
to use as she sees fit. Quite happy with her life, until the king grows 
sick, and her dark magic is useless. Faced with a life changing situation 
out of her control, Queen Zelda suffers a full psycological break and 
becomes The Dark Queen.

She summons all the healers in the land, and if they cannot heal the
King, she tortures them to death or turns them into dark world pets (demons).
Slowly all the healers in the land disappear inside the Castle.
Soon people refuse to enter the Castle altogether, and in her controlled 
solitude King Masa dies. The Dark Queen refuses to let Death have any control
over her life, so she revives King Masa with Dark Magic, knowing this will
make him essentially a shadow demon, the most dangerous type of Dark World
creature that exists - because it can't be killed again. And it takes a human
sacrifice to bring someone back from the dead using dark magic. So Zelda
sacrifices Sahasrahla to bring back King Masa, creating the Shadow King.
Because of the nature of his sacrifice, Sahasrahla is able to live on in
the Dark World as himself, in a ghostly form, forever tormented with the 
knowledge he has of what happened, but can never tell anyone (due to being in dark world).

King Masa rises again as The Shadow King, where the game gets it's title from.
The Shadow King embodies all that is destruction: he begins blood sports at the coliseum,
with prizes and rewards, drawing attention from all over the land. the dead bodies
are used in magical experiments by the Queen to build an undead army.
imagine animated body parts as mobs, slowly crawling around,
while fighting zelda in some hellish bloody throne room. awesome.

anyway, eventually link defeats the shadow king. 





king masa - antagonist, the fake badguy

the king of the kondo clan, who invaded Hyrule after Ganon's defeat.
Married princess zelda, making her Queen Zelda, but fell under her dark magic.
Completely controlled by Zelda for years, eventually dying from an unknown sickness.
raised from the dead by Zelda, he became The Shadow King - partially in this world and
partially in the dark world, forever torn between them. The final fight with the 
shadow king is special because the level transitions between light and dark states,
which means the environment plays a big part in the fight. 

but eventually he's defeated and is cast aside, because the real focus is between
zelda and link - not king masa. once beaten, king masa randomly appears around the castle
in the dark world at 1 health. easy to defeat, but a reminder of his existence.





Sahasrahla - npc

dead now, but lives in dark world in ghostly form
mostly used to tell link extensive backstory about zelda and what happened.
and it's really hard to get to him, but once you do, you learn all kinds of awesome context!
and probably get some awesome item too. some dark world item, which is cursed of course.










