

DIRECTION:

employ fincher's technique: ask a question, then let the viewer
discover the answer. don't tell them about it, lead them to it.
setup the puzzle, but let them solve it. don't hold their hand.
drawing out the moment here can be done by intentionally leaving
out hints or info needed to solve the puzzle.















assuming zelda has a telepathic link with link, then she knows
where he is and how is he feeling, what he's doing, etc...

when she was young, her magic was weak. overtime she grew stronger,
but link traveled far away so she couldn't reach him. as he gets closer
it gets easier for her to sense him. this allows her to communicate with him,
as herself, BUT ALSO AS ANYONE ELSE. so she disguises herself as different people
in order to get the 'truth' out of link, as she sees it, since she can't trust
anyone (her father 'sold' her for peace, afterall). she spoofs as shahasrala
to ask about link's feelings towards the queen, etc... she can also act as the
navi character in providing hints tips tricks and weak plot points when needed.

this also means that zelda watches link, and can judge his every move,
count his deaths, his damage taken, dialog choices (proqueen, antiqueen),
etc... and then all this data can be added into the final dialog with the queen,
where she judges link for 'all he has done to her, and to her kingdom'.






DARKWORLD

endgame: link becomes king of hyrule, king of the light world.
which sets up the endgame: conquering the dark world. until then the 
dark world is mostly a bridge to get to certain places and isn't a required
part of the main storyline at all. only when the story ends does the darkworld
lore begin: multiple legendary beasts live in lairs deep in the dark world. 
defeat them to become the king of the dark world as well. 

the dark world should be physically different than the light world.
locations are not the same, but soem locations resemble one another.
this is due to the dark world being sealed away for so long, become mishappen
overtime from it's rotting evil that no-one bothered to finish killing.
this of lttp's light vs dark world dungeon entrances and their surrounding areas.

LEGENDARY DARKWORLD BEASTS (dark world dungeons)

these are endgame top-tier optional bosses that serve as challenges for the
seasoned and accomplished player. they are unforgiving. and their "lairs" are 
diablo1 style dungeons (small single floors, with stairs down/up to bottom level).
legendary beasts are fought in hub sized rooms, since they are a bit larger 
than normal bosses. also, the enemies in the lairs are minibosses that may spawn
mobs, so this will be pushing the game's obj pools to their limits.

SHAHASRALA'S HOUSE

hidden deep in the darkworld is shahasrala's house, where his ghost continues on.
if link can make it to sha's house, then he spills the beans on the queen and everything
that she's been doing and what she did to him. however, this is a fairly difficult place
to get to, requiring various equipment, and is guarded by darkworld beasts.

THE BURIAL CRYPTS (dark world colliseum)

these are blood sport fights with betting, where link can fight to win vast sums
of gold, but if he dies he loses all his winnings.

ladder fights against various enemies + mobs for gold.
each fight increases the total payout, but losing a fight clears the payout.
each fight increases the difficulty and count of enemies.
the enemy list includes minibosses, bosses, and special legendary beasts.

*also, at the dark world colliseum, link can turn in legendary beast heads
for gold at one of the dark world vendors. these are very pricey and the deposit
goes right into links account, so he must have one in order to sell the heads.

DARKWORLD VENDORS

how exciting is this? vendors.. in the darkworld.. selling darkworld things..


DARKWORLD VISUALS

in the dark world, things are alive, scary, and "juicy organic evil".
think dripping fluids, pools of blood, pestilence, flies, tentacles, diseased rats,
etc.. it's a pretty nasty place - and we need a variety of particles to represent it.

DARKWORLD DIRECTION

this is a mix of lttps darkworld, but more modern and inspired by stranger thing's
darkworld - which is a much more fearful and violent place. music inspirations include
hyper light drifter's soundtrack, SUNNN, perturbator, carpenter brut, & koji kondo.










the pegasus boots are damaged, so that's why link cant dash like he used to.
















