





#Backstory

after link touches the triforce, all paths to the dark world
were sealed. Hyrule entered into a state of unparalled prosperity,
a golden age, which ended suddenly with the invasion of the Kondo clan.

unprepared for such a battle, Hyrule fell to the Kondo clan,
and Princess Zelda married King Masa, the Kondo Clan's leader.
When King Masa learned of Link, a reward was put out for his head.
Link fled his homeland, Hyrule, sailing across the seas.

For years, Link simply traveled. Trying to forget.
Then one day he sees a Queen's Tournament Poster.

Meanwhile in Hyrule...
Hyrule's inhabitants rebelled, and martial law was declared.
The people turned against the king, and the queen, and were met
with crushing force. Kakariko village was razed to the ground,
and many villagers died or lost their homes. Queen Zelda
disappeared into the castle, never leaving, rarely being seen.

Unable to organize, the people of hyrule submitted to King Masa.
Broken and hungry, they were fed and sheltered by the King.
A coliseum was built, and the people were entertained.
The King provided the people jobs, homes, and families.
The people slowly began to love the King. 

Then one day the King fell sick. All the king's healers couldn't
fix him. People traveled from lands far away to cure him,
but there was nothing they could do, and King Masa died.
The Queen wept by his side for days, until a shadow rose
from King Masa's body. It summoned the wisemen and the warriors.
As they appeared, the shadow became King Masa, and it spoke to them.
It told them of an afterlife. A world beyond ours, where death
wasn't the end. Where one could live forever..
The Dark World...












#Scene1 - Spark

Link finds a poster advertising The Shadow King's Tournament.
The Winner receives richs, land, and a meeting with the King and Queen.
A meeting with Queen Zelda. After 20 years. Links decides to go.
link travels back to hyrule to compete in the King's tournament.










#Scene2 - Training

Link arrives at the Coliseum. This is where 'training' happens.

Quest: Complete Training

"after 20 years, you might of forgot a few moves.
let's get you back in the saddle." - colliseum npc

this teaches the player the basics of the game, like movement, attacking, item usage.
player fights thru a few rooms leading up to a simple boss.
these rooms teach the player BASICS about items too - using boomerangs to trigger things for example.
of using bombs to blow statues up. etc..
upon beating the boss, link is rewarded with the Coliseum Pass.
this gives Link access to the other features of the Coliseum.
more importantly, this ends the level and opens the overworld map up to the player.


#Scene3 - OPEN MAP
At this point, the player can do ALOT of stuff non-linearly.
So the story has to split in multiple linear storylines that don't really
overlap or touch at all, otherwise they can affect each other and it gets
really complicated really fast, and that's hard to do in code.. honestly.

there are many other places open on the map initially.
but some of them are closed, the inside of the castle city, for example.
the city gate will be closed until link wins the tournament.
at that point, the royal city is open.	













#MAIN PLOT
to enter the king's tournament, link must be qualified as a
true hyrulian warrior by possessing the crystals from the 4 world dungeons.

forest
cave (mountain)
desert
water

once link is a hyrulian warrior, he is granted access to the king's tournament.
however, this tournament becomes easier with each additional crystal link collects.
for example, link will fight the bosses from the swamp, graveyard, and ice dungeons
if he doesn't have those crystals. so, completing those optional dungeons makes
the 3rd act climax a little easier to get through. however, these dungeons are
in the dark world, and they are noticeably harder than their light world equivalents.

swamp
graveyard
ice

king's tournament is a series of boss fights, and MOST of these fights are against
bosses that only exist in this tournament, so the player can't 'train' beforehand.
they have to adapt or grind. these bosses are dark world bosses btw.

After the boss battles, link 'wins' the tournament.
* the city gate opens. city levels become available.
* royal vendors become available.

once link completes the tournament, defeating the last boss, the castle is
made available to Link. this should be like Willy Wonka's chocolate factory -
a mysterious, but frankly scary place where weird evil stuff happens.

entering into the castle, link finds that the castle servants are all dark world
demons, and they attack him as if he were in the dark world, because the castle
is essentially part of the dark world at this point. so in the dark world, it's the
same as it is in the light world. the light world version is 'gone'.
link fights through the castle to the throne room to face the King and Queen.

Prior to meeting, link can access the royal vendors, where special loot exists.
link meets with the queen and king in the castle, where the king challenges link to a duel.

k: 'zelda has told me the truth, link.'
k: 'how she helped you fight ganon...'
k: 'how you fell in love with her...'
k: 'your childish affections amuse me, link.'
k: 'do you think she's yours?'
k: 'did you return to save her? from what? me?'
k: 'i'll save her... from you.. from her stalker.'
k: 'en garde, hero!'

link battles the king in a very difficult boss fight.
keep in mind that Zelda has engineered this entire encounter and is speaking thru
The Shadow King TO Link. His dialog is really HER dialog to LINK, regarding her fears,
hopes, and wishes. she wants link back. she wants to return to 'sanity', but she doesn't
know how, so she only exerts more control over her world and her subjects.
that's what makes his final dialog so elegant in regards to moving the plot along.
reading this initially, it just reads like a dumb video game character.
once you know the backstory and context, it's really Zelda toying with Link,
twisting facts, making things one sided, removing his importance / status, etc..

when the king dies, Zelda and The Dark Queen battle for psycological control
for a moment in a very bipolar dialog that exposes her mental state more obviously.
- this defeat is annoying for the dark queen. 
- this defeat is joyous for queen zelda, who pleads with link to keep fighting and 
rescue her from the dark queen's grasp. 
this bi-polar dialog should be presented with two different queen sprites to really 
emphasize that these are TWO different people occupying the same body.

dq: 'well look at the peasant boy, with his fancy toys.'
dq: 'hasn't he grown into quite the hero...'
z:	'link! help! the dark queen has-'
dq:	'oh my. such outbursts won't be tolerated, little princess.'
(the dark queen damages herself)
z: 	'link! help me! i can't -'
(the dark queen damages herself)
z: 	'i can't control her any -'
(the dark queen damages herself)

dq: 'i am the queen. the rightful ruler of hyrule.'
dq:	'... i'm not the princess you saved so long ago, link.'
dq: 'that girl was hunted. kidnapped... tortured.'
dq: '...have you ever seen the dark world?'
dq: 'as a child, i saw monsters tear my friends apart.'
dq: '...while you were playing with boomerangs, link...'
- dramatic pause -

dq: 'why are you here?'
dq: 'some idealistic pursuit of love? fame? justice?'
link: '...to see you, zelda. 
link: '...to save you again.'
link: 'one last time..'

dq: 'your little princess doesn't need saving anymore.'
dq: '...you should save yourself instead.'
dq: '...goodbye, link.'

link: 'don't make me do this, zelda...'

link and the dark queen fight, but in the light world, so the dark queen 
is a little weaker than she would be in the dark world. upon defeating her,
zelda blows the fucking castle up, phoenix style, leaving nothing but rubble 
where it once stood. so, in the light world, the castle gets destroyed.

but the dark world castle is just fine.
and that's where the dark queen zelda is waiting for link.
link wakes up in the forest, badly hurt and missing items.

however the player wants to do the next part is up to them, 
but essentially there is a portal to the dark world castle
in the rubble of the light world castle. stepping thru this
portal takes link inside the dark world castle, which is 
otherwise inaccessible from the dark world. 
inside is princess zelda AND the dark queen.
the feeling here is more ff7 than zelda.
it's about 'atmosphere' now, not enemies or challenges.
there are no mobs, only occasional minibosses, that
really shouldn't be a challenge at this point.

finally, link arrives at the throne room inside the dark world castle. 
the dark queen and zelda appear in ghostly form at the front of the room. 
this room looks PURE EVIL, with dark tentacles and blood and bodyparts strewn
about - more diablo than zelda. 

this is the final fight between the dark queen and link.
the dark queen explains that zelda will die too if link kills her.
she explains that these astral forms are the last pieces of zelda's soul.
and as long as the dark queen lives, her dark power will continue to 
create monsters, which will spew forth from the dark world rifts.
but, zelda will continue to live on, here in the dark world.

link must decide to kill zelda/dark queen or not.
if not, there is a short closing dialog, then the dialog resets.
if link decides to kill zelda, then the final boss fight commences.
this is endgame Link vs. DarkWorld DarkQueen.
the dark queen spawns minibosses while shooting fireballs and
flying around, occasionally stopping on the ground as the physical
form of zelda, which is the only time the dark queen can take damage.
the dark queen MAKES LINK HURT ZELDA to damage her (the visual form).
that's poetry in boss fight format.

eventually, link strikes zelda (the sprite), and the final dialog
happens, where zelda dies in link's arms.

link: '...zelda.. i'm here..'
z: 'link? you saved me.. again..'
z: 'from ganon.. from myself..'
z: 'and i've never.. been there for you..'
link: 'i can't -'
z: 'listen to me link..'
z: 'i have always loved you.'
z: 'i knew you would return..'
z: 'you're the only one, link..'
z: 'the only one who ever... truly..'
z: '...mattered...'
z: '...'
(zelda dies)
link: 'zelda...'
link: '...'
link: '...i love you too...'
link: '...goodbye.'

there are various in-game consequences to her death:
link becomes king. dialogs change.
various dialogs change to morn zeldas passing.

? the colliseum is shut down, and turned into a food pantry / shelter for hyrule's citizens.
? inside homeless, broken NPCs express tiny glimmers of hope while eating.





















	
Side Quests / ENDGAME activities: 

colliseum betting
tournaments, 
blob questline, 
purchase houses/businesses/etc
various special item quests.	
hidden simple dungeons / minibosses.

"loot caves" - secret entrances hidden in levels and dungeons that are mini-dungeons 
sequential rooms, with special bosses in each room, beating the loot cave returns hero to overworld
these entrances actually look like caves, and can be hidden behind cracked walls

"the king's ghosts" - randomly a 'king's ghost' will spawn in a dungeon room
this is the king boss battle, but the king is at 6 health and half opacity, and flying.

	
	
	


Tournaments, & Dungeons

Tournament
at colliseum, link can fight mobs and/or gladiators to earn money.
player can also bet money on other gladiator battles, or on their own battles.
when two AI gladiators fight, the battle playsout in realtime, using AI.
gladiators have stats, loadouts, fighting history, etc..
gladiator AI also has fighting styles: aggressive, disciplined, defensive
gladiators also have backstories, and names.

NPCs
various npcs are scattered throughout shops and locations.
NPCs in the shops explain aspects of inventory and stuff.
other NPCs fill out the game world's backstory and discuss major characters.








Blob SideStoryline

So link becomes a blob, and theres a blob vendor level
to get to the blob vendor level, you need to travel thru a small pipe
as a blob, this is easy. as a human, this is not possible.
this pipe level appears after all 4 crystals have been obtained.
inspecting the pipe as link displays a dialog 'i can't fit into that small, slimy pipe'.
inspecting the pipe as blob displays a dialog 'here we go!', and loads blob town.
exiting blob town places hero at the pipe level on overworld map.

the blobs arent actually bad guys, they've just been lumped in with the bad guys
they are kidnapped and forced to fight in the colliseum or live as slaves
because the blobs can't communicate with the humans, everybody assumes they're just evil
thus the blob's storyline is simply to fight in the queen's tournament and win
upon winning, the blob will wish that his people be recognized and set free.
the blob's journey is then one of learning about the blob's history + forming emotional bonds with blob NPCs
the blob challenge is simple: slower movement, leading to much harder dungeons + bosses





